{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf190
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12600\viewh7800\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 S-63 Vector charts for OpenCPN                                                     
\b0\fs24 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 S-63
\b0  is the 
\i encrypted distribution format
\i0  for 
\b S-57 vector charts
\b0 . Today, hydrographical offices all over the world are producing their official vector charts in the S-57 format. Distribution is done under the S-63 standard.\
NOAA provides vector charts for the US in the plain S-57 format free. You can use those directly.\
\
S-63 defines that charts \'96 called 
\i cells
\i0  in the standard \'96 are not sold but 
\b licensed
\b0  for the use on 
\b one single system
\b0 . The license is temporary and only valid for a limited time.\
\
Implementations of S-63 charts have to guarantee this, applying either hardware or software dongles. OpenCPN has chosen the software dongle approach.\
\
A 
\b UserPermit
\b0  is the key that entitles the user to purchase, or better to license,  individual or a group of charts from a distributor.\
o-charts.org has entered into agreements with chart distributors, which will issue the cells with encrypted cell permits. With your UserPermit you can buy charts from them, or at HOs that are offering direct distribution channels. \
\
The 
\b S-63 plug-in
\b0  for OpenCPN will install and decrypt these charts, making them available for use with OpenCPN.\
\
Neither OpenCPN nor
\b  o-charts.org,
\b0  as the entity that handles the S-63 plug-in, are selling charts directly. We are not an official chart distributor or VAR. As a contractual partner of the IHO, we are issuing and are keeping track of OpenCPN UserPermits.\
\
A
\i  fingerprint 
\i0 is taken from the system OpenCPN is running on, in order to generate an individual 
\b InstallPermit
\b0  for the machine in question.\
The 
\b InstallPermit
\b0  enables to use an UserPermit on a specific PC.\
\
We cover Linux, Windows and OS-X systems.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs32 \cf0 FAQ:
\b0\fs24 \
\
Q: 
\f1\fs21 Why S-63 charts?
\f0\fs24 \
A: They are the official and generally the most up-to-date chart material available. Vector charts for chart plotters used for the leisure market are at best derivatives (some will have some added features). \
\
Q: 
\f1\fs21 How do I get my plug-in (1), the UserPermit(2) and an InstallPermit(3)?
\f0\fs24 \
A: (1) Download the 
\b Plug-in
\b0  installer for your OS  from our website 
\b o-charts.org
\b0 \
(2) Then purchase your 
\b UserPermit
\b0  at out web-shop\
(3) Next, to get your 
\b InstallPermit
\b0 : download the \'93fingerprint\'94 program and execute it. It will create a file with a name similar to 
\i f_pr_ArchNAMETTTTTTTTT
\i0 . \
You find it in the same folder as the \'93fingerprinter\'94.\
Now you return to our web site, o-charts.org, with the resulting file in order to generate your individual InstallPermit, at no additional cost.\
\
\
Q: 
\f1\fs21 Why do I have to pay for the plug-in?
\f0\fs24 \
A: We have to run this operation and respond to the IHO on a permanent base. The structure and costs are kept to a minimum. In case we have a great success economical speaking, funds will go back to OpenCPN.\
\
Q:
\f1\fs21  I'm on OS-X/Linux (UBUNTU, Debian, etc.). The \'93fingerprinter\'94 will not start. What to do?
\f0\fs24 \
A: If you copied the installer to an USB-stick and started it from there or copied the installer to the target system from a stick it might lack the required execution flag. (Reason is the FAT32 file system of the stick). In this case copy the installer to the target system and set the \'93x\'94flag.\
\
Q: 
\f1\fs21 On how many PCs can I use my S-63 charts at the same time?
\f0\fs24 \
A: The standard states one machine \'96 but in practice up to 5 installs are tolerated.\
\
Q:  
\f1\fs21 As how many systems counts a dual boot system?
\f0\fs24 \
A: Each HW/SW combination is an individual one and requires its own InstallPermit.\
\
Q:  
\f1\fs21 And if I install the software in a Virtual Machine?
\f0\fs24 \
A: It will not run there. We have to prevent the system from being cloned.\
\
Q: 
\f1\fs21 I had to re-install my OS. Now the InstallPermit is not valid any longer.
\f0\fs24 \
A: Please generate a new InstallPermit\
\
Q:
\f1\fs21  My PC died. Can I recover the charts?
\f0\fs24 \
A: Yes, and this case will \'93cost\'94 you an InstallPermit for your new machine as well\
\
Q:
\f1\fs21  Can I have my InstallPermit and the charts on a USB stick and carry them between different systems?
\f0\fs24 \
A:  This would be the hardware dongle solution. We feel that it is not viable for us to send USB sticks or DVDs all over the world. That's why we opted for a soft dongle. So,  the answer today is - no.\
\
Q: 
\f1\fs21 What does S-63 charts cost (and why are they sometimes so expensive)?
\f0\fs24 \
A: The retail price is fixed by the individual HOs. Their customers are from the shipping industry or official bodies like governments,  not the leisure market. This is a recognized issue and the reason why there are very few users of S-63 charts from this group, for now.\
We will need a lot of lobbying to get better solutions and better prices. Help or support from those who have the right contacts would be appreciated. \
\
Q: 
\f1\fs21 Can I use the UserPermit to buy charts for other chart software than OpenCPN?
\f0\fs24 \
A: No, the UserPermit is only valid for one kind of system \'96 OpenCPN in our case. \
\
Q: 
\f1\fs21 My temporary license will time out. What will happen?
\f0\fs24 \
A: The chart will not disappear, but there will be a warning displayed.\
\
Q: 
\f1\fs21 OpenCPN is open source. Where is the code for the plug-in?
\f0\fs24 \
A: To work with S-63 we have to ensure that no copies of the unencrypted cells are accessible during the execution of the software. Therefore, the plug-in is a black box. Similar to the commercial BSB4 or nv-chart plug-ins.\
\
}